1. Data warehouse is a repository of integrated information that is used for query and analysis purpose. 
   It consist of different king of data that is heterogeneous data.


2. i)object oriented
   ii)Time variant
   iii)Non volatile
   iv)Summarized


3. Architecture of Traditional Data warehouse:
                                             i>OLTP: Online Transaction Processing Database
                                            ii>Staging
                                           iii>ETL: Extract,Transformation and Loading
                                            iv>ODS: Online Data Store
                                             v>OLAP: Online Access Processing


4. OLTP: It stands for online transaction processing database
         All transactions like insert, update, delete at the customer level takes place here.


4.1. Staging: It consists of the process of converting heterogeneous data to homogeneous data.
              It also involves Data Clensing and Data Mining
              Data Clensing: Removal of noise in Data or unwanted data.
              Data Mining: Extracting useful/meaningful info from data.


5. ETL: It stands for Extract,Transformation and loading
        It is the heart of data warehouse
        It involves modification of Data 


6. ODS: It stands for Online Data Store
        It contains low granular info such as per day data, per week data

 
7. OLAP: It stands for Online Access Processing
         It contains high granular data like monthly, quaterly and yearly data
         It help in summarizing and implementation of reports


8. DataMart: It is a subset of Data Warehouse 
             It refers to the data in the data warehouse
             It is usually small and mainly focused on subject or department wise


9. Building Methodologies: It is how the data warehouses are built
                          There are 2 types: i)Top-Down Approach- First Data Warehouse and then DataMart
                                             ii)Bottom-Up Approach- First DataMart and then Data Warehouse
                          Traditional Data warehouse uses Bottom-Up approach

                          
10. Data Modelling: It is process of defining the data into entities and attributes
                   It is done by data or business analyst
                   There are two types of Modelling: i) ER Modelling (Entity Relation)
                                                     ii) Dimensional Modelling


11. Tables: It is nothing but the detailed information of a department in structured form.
            Tables contain columns that give us different attributes or features information


12.           OLTP                                         OLAP 
        i)Object oriented                         i)Subject Oriented 
        ii)Can be updated                         ii)cannot be updated
        iii)Derived Data                          iii)Summarised Data


13.          OLTP                                                    ODS
       i) Online Tansaction Processing Database          i) Online Data Store
       ii) Contains heterogenous data                    ii) contains homogeneous data
       iii) Transaction Data                             iii) contains low granular data like day wise, week wise


14.           Data WareHouse                                       DataMart
        i) It is repository of integrated                 i) It is subset of Data Warehouse 
           information used for analysis                     reffering to data in Data
           and query purpose                                 warehouse
        ii) Contains Multiple Departments                ii) Refers to seperate Deparments in
                                                             Data Warehouse

15.             Star                                             SnowFlake
       i) One Fact is connected to multiple              i) Multiple Facts connected to multiple 
          dimensions                                        dimensions
       ii) The dimensions are in denormalised            ii) The dimensions are in Normalised
           form                                              form


16.             ER Modelling                                        Dimensional Modelling
      i) It shows us how Each table is related            i) It has a fact table which is a centralised
         with others.                                        table that is connected to multiple dimensions 
                                                             or tables
      ii) It is time consuming to access different        ii) It is easy to access with the help of  
          tables                                              Fact table.
      iii) Generally seen in OLTP                         iii) Generally seen in OLAP


17. Dimension: It is used refer tables in Dimensional Modelling.
               A dimension is a table that is connected to Fact table and contains all the detailed information of department.


18. Fact: A fact is centralised or master table in dimensional modelling that has primary keys of other tables or dimensions 
          and measures as its attributes.


19.Types of Dimensions: i> Confirmed Dimensions : Dimensions connected more than 1 fact
                       ii> Degenerative Dimensions: Values in Fact table that does not belong to any dimension or measure
                      iii> Slowly Changing Dimension: They change over a period of time.
                       iv> Junk Dimension: They have junk or temperory values not realted to any dimensions


20. SCD: It Stands for Slowly Changing Dimensions
         It Changes/varies over a period of time
         There are 3 types of SCD:
                         i> SCD1 : It contains only the current data and not previous or historical data
                        ii> SCD2 : It contains current,pevious and historical data
                                   It has 3 types:
                                                a) Flagging: It has a new attribute known as flag that contains 0 and 1 as its value
                                                             with 1 representing current data and 0 for previous and historical data
                                                             Hence it cannot differentiate between previous and historical data.
                                                b) Version: It also adds a new column version that increments value and data comes.
                                                            Hence it can differentiate between previous and historical data.
                                                c) Date Range: Has start date and end date columns to reference data. The End date 
                                                               of the previous data is start date of current data

                        iii> SCD3 : Contains only Current and previous data.


21. Types of Fact:
               i> Additive: Fact connected to all dimensions  .
              ii> Semi- Additive: Fact connected to some and not all dimension.
             iii> Non- Additive: Fact that is not connected to any dimension.
              iv> Cumulative: Has Summarised information.
               v> Snap-Shot: Has a snap that is taken over a period of time.


23. Schema: It is a structure that is followed while modelling to arange the date into  required format.
            There are 3 types of Schema: i> Star Schema:  1 fact, multiple dimensions in denormalised form.
                                        ii> MultiStar Schema: Multiple fact and dimensions in denormalised form.
                                       iii> Snowflake Schema: Multiple fact and dimensions in normalised form.


24. Historical Data: It is data that is collected and stored over a period of time.


25. Surrogate Key : It is a primary key that does not belonging to any dimension.


26. Primary Key : Primary keys are attributes that can be used to uniquely identify a table.
                  They are Not Null and unique values.


27. Unique Key: Attribute that contains unique value but unlike primary key can have null values in them.


28. OLAP: It stands for Online Access Processing
          It contains high granular data like monthly, quaterly and yearly data
          It help in summarizing and implementation of reports
          There are 3 types of OLAP : ROLAP (Relational)
                                      MOLAP (Multidimensional)
                                      HOLAP (Hybrid)


29. OLAP Analysis : i> Roll up : Also known as drill up.
                                 Used to move up the heirarchy.
                                 ex: From city to state in heirarchy of location
                   ii> Drill down: Used to move down the heirarchy
                                   ex: From State to City in heirarchy of location
                  iii> Drill by: Skips through Heirarchy.
                                 ex: From Country to City in heirarchy of location
                   iv> Drill across: Used to move from heirarchy to heirarchy
                                     ex: From Country in Location to Products in Sales
                    v> Drill Through: Used to move from report to report
                   vi> Pivot: Used in rearranging the data or in visualizing it.


30. Modern Data Warehouse: Unlike Traditional warehousing it has the ability to store wide range of data even from web applications and
                           social media. It also has high capability to access and process real time data with low latency. It uses data
                           lakes that has the data in its original format unless it is required to be accessed providing flexibility.
                           
                           Architectures: MPP(Multidimensional parallel processing)
                                          lamba
                                          hybrid